README.md, before:

# vampire-guide

## Development setup

Project dependencies might be installed using [PDM](https://pdm-project.org/en/latest/)
Refer to PDM documentation for:
- [PDM Installation](https://pdm-project.org/en/latest/#installation) 
- [Managing Dependencies](https://pdm-project.org/en/latest/usage/dependency/#manage-dependencies)

TLDR; install PDM then use the command `pdm sync` to install all dependencies.

Also: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Notes

Downloading polygons is really slow. Population density of Gdańsk is 712/sqkm, NYC is 96/hectar, so Gdańsk is 13 times less densely populated. A circle of area 20sqkm from which NYC data was downloaded in 5 minutes. Hence in Gdańsk it could be 13 (lets say 10) times faster. So 30 seconds per 20sqkm, and for entire Gdańsk of 260sqkm it would take around a minute.

If it takes a minute for a major Polish City, maybe lets download the whole Poland?

### Running the app
##### API
To run the API, execute the following command:
```bash
fastapi dev api.py
```
make sure that dependencies are installed

##### Frontend
Go to the `frontend` directory and run the following command:
```bash
npm run [dev/start]
```

Commit message:

feat: Serve frontend with FastAPI too
Instead of a backend/frontend split serve the frontend from the "backend"
server hosted via FastAPI. This is possible since VUE is a SPA and can be
served from a single endpoint.

README.md, after:

# vampire-guide

## Development setup

Project dependencies might be installed using [PDM](https://pdm-project.org/en/latest/)
Refer to PDM documentation for:
- [PDM Installation](https://pdm-project.org/en/latest/#installation) 
- [Managing Dependencies](https://pdm-project.org/en/latest/usage/dependency/#manage-dependencies)

TLDR; install PDM then use the command `pdm sync` to install all dependencies.

Also: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Notes

Downloading polygons is really slow. Population density of Gdańsk is 712/sqkm, NYC is 96/hectar, so Gdańsk is 13 times less densely populated. A circle of area 20sqkm from which NYC data was downloaded in 5 minutes. Hence in Gdańsk it could be 13 (lets say 10) times faster. So 30 seconds per 20sqkm, and for entire Gdańsk of 260sqkm it would take around a minute.

If it takes a minute for a major Polish City, maybe lets download the whole Poland?

### Running the app
##### Frontend Build
Go to the `frontend` directory and run the following command:
```bash
npm run build
```

##### Server & Backend
To serve the frontend and API, execute the following command:

```bash
fastapi dev api.py
```

before executing the command make sure that all dependencies are installed
